United Nations A/C.3/78/SR.5
General Assembly
Seventy-eighth session
Official Records
Distr.: General
27 October 2023
Original: English
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be sent as soon as possible, under the signature of a member of the
delegation concerned, to the Chief of the Documents Management Section (dms@un.org),
and incorporated in a copy of the record.
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the
United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
23-18865 (E)
*2318865*
Third Committee
Summary record of the 5th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Monday, 2 October 2023, at 10 a.m.
Chair: Mr. Marschik . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Austria)
Contents
Agenda item 107: Crime prevention and criminal justice
Agenda item 108: Countering the use of information and communications
technologies for criminal purposes
A/C.3/78/SR.5
23-188652/17
The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m.
Agenda item 107: Crime prevention and criminal
justice (A/78/119, A/78/159 and A/78/264)
Agenda item 108: Countering the use of
information and communications technologies for
criminal purposes
1. Ms. Schantz (New York Office of the United
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)) said
that, in the aftermath of the coronavirus disease
(COVID-19) pandemic, UNODC was increasing its
efforts to meet Member States’ demand for support in
implementing their crime prevention and criminal
justice priorities, with Sustainable Development Goal
16 positioned as a key enabler for the implementation of
the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development as a
whole, including Goals 14 and 15. Almost halfway
through the implementation of its corporate strategy,
UNODC had been actively working towards the
meaningful engagement of youth and the mainstreaming
of gender and human rights. Innovative approaches in
mandate delivery included incorporating artificial
intelligence tools into analysis and other services
provided to Member States with regard to violence
against women, maritime threats and environmental
crime. Capacity-building activities had also been
consolidated to provide responsive and integrated
support to Member States on land, maritime and air
border-management issues.
2. Regarding people-centred crime prevention and
criminal justice, UNODC had revamped its global
programme to cover issues such as access to justice,
violence against women and children and prison reform,
in line with the objectives of Goal 16 and the Kyoto
Declaration on Advancing Crime Prevention, Criminal
Justice and the Rule of Law: Towards the Achievement
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It had
also developed new partnerships and initiatives aimed at
strengthening youth resilience to crime and violence,
including in cooperation with the International Olympic
Committee. In 2023, the Commission on Crime
Prevention and Criminal Justice had adopted the first-
ever resolution on access to justice in criminal justice
systems, now submitted for General Assembly
consideration. UNODC had also enhanced its anti-
corruption service delivery model to provide informed,
flexible and context-specific support through regional
hubs established in Nairobi, Mexico City and Bogota,
with a fourth being established in Bangkok. The hubs
enabled better delivery of technical assistance on
corruption in specific sectors and support to Member
States in meeting their obligations under the United
Nations Convention against Corruption. An event would
be held in early November in New York to mark the
twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the Convention,
which enjoyed nearly universal ratification.
3. Organized criminal groups were becoming
increasingly violent and decentralized, expanding to
new markets and misusing the global trade system and
advancements in technology. Analytical research and
reports had enabled the provision of tailored capacity-
building to help Member States to address that
challenge. The rapid expansion of online connectivity
without parallel legal- and policy-level risk
management measures had increased the risk of
cyberdependent and cyber-enabled criminal activities,
such as online child sexual abuse and exploitation and
trafficking in persons. The illicit manufacturing of
homemade “ghost guns” using online-purchased parcel-
shipped kits had been facilitated by further
technological developments. UNODC continued to
provide capacity-building on cybercrime using the
regional hub model and had noted the progress made by
Member States in their negotiation of a comprehensive
convention on countering the use of information and
communications technology (ICT) for criminal
purposes. UNODC had also launched a new global
programme on preventing and countering terrorism to
strengthen legal and criminal justice support for
Member States in their adherence to universal counter-
terrorism instruments such as the International
Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear
Terrorism, while respecting human rights. In close
collaboration with partners, UNODC continued to assist
States in the screening, prosecution, rehabilitation and
reintegration of foreign terrorist fighters and to support
the newly launched integrated border stability
mechanism and the publication of transnational
organized crime threat assessments for West Africa.
4. In 2023, UNODC had released its biennial Global
Report on Trafficking in Persons and conducted a rapid
assessment of illicit markets in Haiti. The Office had
also published briefs on several topics, provided support
on enhancing countries’ data-collection activities and
organized training events on questionnaire completion.
The constant expansion of UNODC mandates, including
support for the implementation of the Secretary-
General’s new vision on the rule of law and for various
work streams of Our Common Agenda, required less
earmarked and more predictable funding, as noted in the
report on the United Nations crime prevention and
criminal justice programme (A/78/264). Keeping the
world safe from crime was essential to paving the way
for the enjoyment of human rights and the
implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
A/C.3/78/SR.5
3/1723-18865
5. Ms. Arab Bafrani (Islamic Republic of Iran) said
that UNODC played an important role in the global fight
against trafficking in persons by promoting global
partnerships and collecting and analysing relevant
information. Joint investigations between and among
countries of destination, transit and origin were crucial
for the success of investigations. Bilateral or
multilateral agreements or arrangements could lay out
the appropriate legal framework for the establishment of
such investigations, with due respect for the sovereign
rights of States. Unilateral coercive measures imposed
by certain States against some countries violated
fundamental principles of international law, including
those outlined in the Charter of the United Nations,
significantly reduced the allocation of resources and
posed a significant challenge to effective international
and regional cooperation in combating crime. She
enquired about UNODC activities to address the
negative impacts of such measures, which impeded
targeted countries’ ability to fight trafficking in persons
and the smuggling of migrants.
6. Ms. Schuller (Representative of the European
Union, in its capacity as observer) said that the
comprehensive mandate of UNODC was closely linked
to human rights and respect for fundamental freedoms.
The European Union and its member States condemned
in the strongest possible terms the ongoing Russian war
of aggression against Ukraine, which was in breach of
the Charter and international law and severely hampered
international cooperation. A stronger, reinvigorated
multilateralism was necessary, with the United Nations
and its agencies at the centre of efforts. The Initiative on
the Safe Transportation of Grain and Foodstuffs from
Ukrainian Ports was an example of the Office’s active
role within the United Nations system; the decision by
the Russian Federation to suspend its participation was
irresponsible and deplorable.
7. Her delegation was deeply concerned about
increasing challenges to United Nations participation by
civil society and non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), which were indispensable to the work of
UNODC, and to the principle of inclusiveness. The
Office’s commitments to mainstreaming gender
equality, women and youth empowerment, child
protection and human rights into its programmes were
commendable. Nevertheless, trafficking in persons and
migrant smuggling remained a serious concern, and
socioeconomic vulnerabilities continued to be exploited
by transnational organized crime networks. United
Nations Member States must redouble their efforts to
strengthen criminal justice institutions and promote the
rule of law, in order to address and combat offline and
online crime following a human rights-based approach.
The ongoing negotiations on a United Nations
convention on cybercrime were also very important, as
was the work of the Commission on Crime Prevention
and Criminal Justice. Given the Office’s global work
experience in war and conflict situations, she enq uired
as to the impact of the Russian war of aggression against
Ukraine on organized crime in the region and beyond
and what actions could be taken in that regard.
8. Mr. Merron (United States of America) said that
illicitly manufactured synthetic drugs posed a critical
threat to global health, public safety and international
security; cybercrime posed a direct threat to collective
security; and corruption undermined good governance
and threatened democratic values. In 2023, the United
States had launched the Global Coalition to Address
Synthetic Drug Threats, with 109 countries having since
joined. His country would continue to work towards
achieving a fair and practical criminal justice instrument
on the threat of cybercrime that also protected human
rights, while preserving an interoperable, secure and
reliable Internet. In December, the United States would
host the tenth Conference of the States Parties to the
United Nations Convention against Corruption, marking
the twentieth anniversary of the Convention. Preventing
and combating the grave, complex and interrelated
threats of transnational organized crime and cybercrime,
corruption and illicit drugs required global action. He
enquired as to best practices for engaging
non-governmental stakeholders, in particular social
media and technology companies, in combating illicit
synthetic drugs.
9. Ms. Demosthenous (Cyprus) said that trafficking
in persons was a serious and often transnational crime
that violated fundamental human rights and offended
human dignity. A global issue that also affected Cyprus,
its sole purpose was economic gain, as it generated high
profits for perpetrators. In 2023, Cyprus had published
its first strategic analysis report for financial institutions,
providing guidance on how to identify and report
suspicious transactions related to human trafficking
through an operational alert aimed at strengthening
partnerships between private and public sector actors.
Likewise, the Cyprus financial intelligence unit aimed
to disrupt the business model of traffickers and enhance
overall efforts to prevent and combat the crime, thereby
saving and protecting more victims. She asked how
Governments, the United Nations system, civil society
and the private sector could build stronger partnerships
to better coordinate efforts against trafficking in persons.
10. Mr. Reza Bautista (Mexico) said that the United
Nations played a fundamental role in supporting
Member States with regard to preventing crime and
combating the illicit trafficking of drugs, corruption,
A/C.3/78/SR.5
23-188654/17
terrorism and organized crime, including cybercrime
and environmental crime. Mexico was especially
concerned about the exponential growth of cybercrime
and the innovative use of technology for criminal
purposes. The intrinsic cross-border nature of cybercrime
underscored the need to strengthen effective international
cooperation mechanisms. Highlighting the work of the
Ad Hoc Committee to Elaborate a Comprehensive
International Convention on Countering the Use of
Information and Communications Technologies for
Criminal Purposes, he requested further information on
how cooperation between the United Nations and other
system agencies, as well as the private sector and civil
society, was indeed contributing to holistically tackling
the threats of the use of ICT for criminal purposes. He
also wondered what actions were being taken to boost
the efficiency and effectiveness of such cooperation.
11. Ms. Schantz (New York Office of the United
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)) said that
UNODC had both country and regional field offices that
provided specific support to Member States in
addressing some of the challenges they faced, regardless
of the source of the challenge. Technical assistance with
regard to trafficking in persons and smuggling of
migrants was therefore in response to the specific
challenges facing Governments.
12. In Ukraine, UNODC had recently strengthened its
field office and devised an action plan in line with the
United Nations in Ukraine Transitional Framework. The
Office was researching and monitoring the particular
criminal threats affecting the conflict in Ukraine and in
the region, in particular with regard to trafficking in
arms, illicit financial flows and drug trafficking, both
through technical assistance to the country and with
regional and neighbouring countries. Technical assistance
with regard to trafficking in firearms and trafficking in
persons had predated the conflict and continued in close
coordination with the Resident Coordinator in Ukraine
and in line with United Nations system-level policy.
13. NGOs had a very important role to play in drug use
prevention and the treatment and rehabilitation of users.
The Executive Director of UNODC had attended a
signature event held during the General Assembly high-
level week, and UNODC had launched global research
on synthetic drugs and was looking at developing a
prevention framework, to which its ongoing
collaboration with civil society organizations was key.
Dialogue with various partners also had been initiated
and would continue to inform both research and
technical assistance in the field.
14. As the host of the secretariat and a former
Co-Chair of the Inter-Agency Coordination Group
against Trafficking in Persons, UNODC provided
support for the work of the Group and cooperated
closely with other United Nations entities from a policy
perspective. The Group had issued several guidelines
and papers ahead of most United Nations events and had
provided input for some of the resolutions on human
trafficking. UNODC also provided grants to various
NGOs that supported victims and collaborated closely
with the International Organization for Migration and
the United Nations Children’s Fund, for example, on
countering trafficking in persons. That work involved
engaging with NGOs, which over the years had
developed ways of engaging with and providing help to
victims, and assisting them in collecting valuable
information for investigating and prosecuting
traffickers. The Office had developed specific training
activities that brought together the private sector, NGOs
and law enforcement with regard to engaging with
victims, playing a broker role between law enforcement
and civil society to ensure a flow of information.
15. The sessions of the Ad Hoc Committee to develop
a convention on cybercrime had seen very strong
involvement by civil society, including advocacy groups,
some having consultative status with the Economic and
Social Council and some without such status, but all
pre-approved for participation. Some private sector
entities had also shown considerable interest in the
negotiation process, which was approaching its last
session. UNODC had established regional hubs to
provide technical assistance on cybercrime, from
legislative drafting to the training of law enforcement
and entities. The hubs brought together the private sector,
NGOs and law enforcement to examine cybercrime in a
more holistic manner and to improve cross-sectoral
cooperation, which was essential as all cybercrime-
related information was held on virtual platforms. It was
therefore very important to ensure that law enforcement
had access to that information, in order to provide better
confirmation, both reactively and proactively, with
regard to the prevention of some cyber-enabled offences.
16. The Chair invited the Committee to engage in a
general discussion on the item.
17. Ms. Samson (Representative of the European
Union, in its capacity as observer), speaking also on
behalf of the candidate countries Albania, Bosnia and
Herzegovina, North Macedonia, the Republic of
Moldova and Ukraine and, in addition, Georgia, said
that organized crime posed a significant threat to
citizens, businesses and State institutions, as well as the
economy overall. It was necessary to address both the
specificities of each form of crime and the structures
behind them, their profits and the technologies used to
commit the crimes. The European Union called for the
A/C.3/78/SR.5
5/1723-18865
comprehensive implementation by all States of the
United Nations Convention against Transnational
Organized Crime and the Protocols thereto, through
collective effort and effective international judicial and
police cooperation in preventing and combating its
existing and emerging forms. Meanwhile, corruption
undermined the rule of law, human rights and public
trust in democratic institutions; fighting it at the global,
regional and country levels was a top priority.
Recognizing the key role of asset recovery, the European
Commission had presented a new package of legislative
proposals to ensure that crime did not pay, promoting a
“follow the money” approach.
18. The fight against terrorism required adequate
investigation and prosecution of cases with full respect
for human rights and the rule of law, while protecting
and promoting the rights of victims. International
engagement was essential to effectively countering
terrorism, radicalization and violent extremism; the
European Union therefore cooperated closely with
partner countries, including through a network of
counter-terrorism experts worldwide. Maritime crime
and trafficking at sea were serious global security and
economic threats that required a holistic perspective
encompassing terrorism and organized crime, among
other grave threats. Regional, tailor-made responses to
challenges were needed, as was stronger collaboration
between civilian and military actors and among
specialized agencies.
19. Trafficking in human beings was a serious crime
that deprived human beings of their rights to liberty and
dignity. Strong partnerships between the European
Union and regional and international partners, as well as
with countries of origin and transit of victims, were key
to preventing and fighting the crime and protecting
victims. In its strategy on combating trafficking in
human beings the European Union identified four core
areas of action: demand reduction; breaking the business
model of traffickers; victims, protection and support;
and international cooperation. New challenges included
the online dimension of trafficking. Saving lives was at
the core of all actions to reduce irregular migration and
prevent trafficking, in particular by dismantling the
smugglers’ business model, with a focus on protecting
victims, maintaining a gender-responsive and child-
sensitive approach and ensuring the effective
prosecution of perpetrators. Highly worrying was the
growing trend of State actors creating and facilitating
artificial irregular migration flows for political
purposes, in breach of international law, and deliberately
endangering the lives and well-being of migrants.
Fighting cybercrime also remained a priority for the
European Union, which called on all United Nations
Member States to step up preventive action,
investigations and prosecutions and stand ready to
provide technical assistance. Environmental crime
caused serious economic and environmental and social
damage and could have a negative impact on human
rights. The strong link to organized crime required
particular emphasis on strengthening the capabilities of
law enforcement to tackle those crimes.
20. The outcome document of the special session of
the General Assembly on the world drug problem held
in 2016 remained the most comprehensive international
drug policy document, incorporating broader human
rights, health and development perspectives. In line with
the 2019 Ministerial Declaration on Strengthening Our
Actions at the National, Regional and International
Levels to Accelerate the Implementation of Our Joint
Commitments to Address and Counter the World Drug
Problem, States must accelerate the implementation of
commitments and ensure coherence across the United
Nations system. In line with the United Nations system
common position supporting the implementation of
international drug control policy through effective inter-
agency collaboration, United Nations entities must
continue to provide multidimensional support to
Member States on drug-related matters. As a matter of
principle, the European Union opposed the use of the
death penalty, including for drug related crimes, and
instead promoted responses that were in line with
international law and standards and the principle of
proportionality.
21. Mr. Gafoor (Singapore), speaking on behalf of the
States members of the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN), said that transnational crime
remained an international scourge, facilitated by the
post-pandemic resumption of travel, reopening of
borders and realignment of supply chains. The cross-
border flow of criminals, criminal proceeds and illicit
items posed an especially acute challenge in densely
interconnected South-East Asia. At the recently-held
forty-third ASEAN Summit, leaders had expressed
concern over the rise in transnational crime in the
region. To address those challenges, ASEAN had
convened the seventeenth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting
on Transnational Crime in Labuan Bajo, Indonesia, at
which it had adopted a declaration on advancing law
enforcement cooperation in combating the scourge and
another on strengthening cooperation in protecting and
assisting witnesses and victims thereof and had
reaffirmed its plan of action on combating transnational
crime in the region. The joint efforts made by ASEAN
reflected its commitments to achieving the Sustainable
Development Goals, in particular Goal 16, aimed at
promoting peaceful and inclusive societies, and
A/C.3/78/SR.5
23-188656/17
demonstrated that cooperation and coordination were
indispensable to dealing with modern law and order
challenges and threats to safety and security.
22. In 2022, methamphetamine seizures in South-East
Asia had returned to pre-pandemic levels, and ketamine
seizures had reached an all-time high, reflecting the
severity of the problem in the region. By adopting a
zero-tolerance approach in the region, ASEAN aimed to
shield its communities from the devastating impacts of
illicit drugs on individuals, their families and society. At
the eighth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Drug
Matters, participants had considered the findings of the
ASEAN Drug Monitoring Report 2022 and reviewed
progress with regard to the implementation of the
ASEAN Work Plan on Securing Communities against
Illicit Drugs (2016–2025). ASEAN also continued to
convene its airport interdiction and seaport interdiction
task forces to discuss ways to strengthen cross-border
enforcement, seizure and referrals. States members of
ASEAN would continue to work together and with
UNODC to combat organized crime groups, which had
diversified their supply chains, leveraged technology to
trade in precursor chemicals and increased the supply of
illicit drugs in the region.
23. Online radicalization continued to threaten to
destabilize and fragment regional and global societies.
Improved access to the Internet increased the online
spread of extremist messages of hate. In response, the
ASEAN Intergovernmental Commission on Human
Rights had convened a consultation on victim-oriented
protection to prevent radicalism through strengthened
early-warning systems. The effort underscored the
importance of the Association’s plan of action aimed at
improving coordination among its member States in
engaging vulnerable communities to prevent and
counter radicalization and violent extremism.
24. The end of pandemic restrictions had also
exacerbated trafficking in persons in South-East Asia,
where scam centres run overwhelmingly by persons
trafficked across borders generated billions of dollars in
revenue annually. In line with its long-standing efforts
to combat the scourge, ASEAN had adopted a
declaration on combating trafficking in persons caused
by the abuse of technology, as well as a new
multisectoral workplan. Cyberthreats had also escalated
in South-East Asia, accelerated by the increasing
digitalization of economies. A midterm review of the
Association’s 2017 strategy on cyber-cooperation was
planned for 2024, and the ASEAN Cybersecurity
Coordinating Committee established in 2020 facilitated
closer regional cybersecurity coordination and capacity-
building, as would the new regional computer
emergency response team, once established. The annual
ASEAN Ministerial Conference on Cybersecurity and
the ASEAN-Singapore Cybersecurity Centre of
Excellence also facilitated cooperation-focused
discussion.
25. Mr. Leonidchenko (Russian Federation), speaking
also on behalf of Algeria, Bangladesh, Belarus, Burkina
Faso, Cameroon, China, Cuba, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Egypt, Indonesia, Iraq, Mali, Niger, India, Iran, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Viet Nam, Qatar,
Pakistan, Nicaragua, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Saudi
Arabia, Singapore, Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan,
United Arab Emirates, Yemen, Zimbabwe and the State
of Palestine with regard to agenda item 107, said that the
world drug problem continued to pose a serious threat to
global and regional security and stability, presented
challenges to the health and well-being of humanity and
undermined the sustainable economic development of
States. States parties were urged to comply with the
provisions and ensure the full and effective
implementation of the Single Convention on Narcotic
Drugs of 1961 as amended by the 1972 Protocol, the
Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 and the
United Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in
Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988,
which constituted the cornerstone of the international
drug control system. The complex and transnational
world drug problem must be urgently addressed through
strengthened international cooperation, to be pursued in
a constructive and depoliticized manner, with full
respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
States and the principle of non-intervention in the
internal affairs of States and with Member States taking
the main role in developing an effective and
comprehensive approach.
26. The principle of pacta sunt servanda was also
applicable in that area. According to the International
Narcotics Control Board, the growing decriminalization
of cannabis use for non-medical and non-scientific
purposes constituted a challenge for the international
community and for the implementation of the three
international drug control conventions. Member States
were encouraged to raise awareness of the harm caused
by such use and to prioritize public health through a
comprehensive ban on advertising cannabis products.
Effectively countering the world drug problem required
sustained national and international action and full
compliance with the three conventions. It also required
accelerated implementation of the commitments set ou t
in the Political Declaration and Plan of Action on
International Cooperation towards an Integrated and
Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem
of 2009, the Joint Ministerial Statement of the 2014
A/C.3/78/SR.5
7/1723-18865
high-level review by the Commission on Narcotic Drugs
of the implementation by Member States of the Political
Declaration and Plan of Action of 2019 and the outcome
document of the special session of the General
Assembly of 2016. Those commitments had been
reaffirmed in the 2019 Ministerial Declaration, and the
Commission’s mid-term review in 2024 must serve to
accelerate their implementation by 2029.
27. Countering the world drug problem and actively
promoting a drug-free society was necessary to ensure
health, dignity, peace, security and prosperity for all, but
required enhanced efforts to strengthen the prevention
of drug abuse among children and youth. While the
Commission was the principal United Nations
policymaking body for drug control matters, the United
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime was responsible for
addressing and countering the world drug problem.
Member States were urged to continue to cooperate with
the International Narcotics Control Board in the exercise
of its treaty-mandated role to ensure parties’ compliance
with their obligations under the conventions. Increased
technical assistance and capacity-building should be
provided to Member States upon request. It was
necessary to prevent and eliminate the illicit cultivation,
production, manufacturing and trafficking of narcotic
drugs and psychotropic substances; the related diversion
of and illicit trafficking in precursor chemicals; money-
laundering and illicit financial flows; and the illicit
demand for and abuse of drugs. Strengthened bilateral,
regional and international cooperation and information-
sharing were also required, to prevent and counter the
misuse of ICT for the trafficking in and online sale of
illicit narcotic drugs and precursors.
28. Turning to agenda item 108, and speaking also on
behalf of Azerbaijan, Belarus, Cuba, Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea, Eritrea, Mali, Nicaragua, Niger,
Syrian Arab Republic, Tajikistan and Zimbabwe. he
recommended that the Ad Hoc Committee should strictly
comply with its mandate under General Assembly
resolutions 74/247 and 75/282 to submit a draft
convention for consideration by the Assembly at its
seventy-eighth session. The States were firmly in favour
of upholding the inviolable principles of the Charter.
The future convention should provide a framework for
the protection of State sovereignty and the realization of
anti-crime objectives, without compromising human
rights. The comprehensive nature of the treaty, with
provisions for the broad criminalization of criminal acts,
efficient procedural measures and the collection and
exchange of electronic evidence for a wide range of
offences, would make it possible to meet the objectives
for combating ICT-related crime. Increased international
cooperation and mutual assistance was needed, and the
convention should provide the law enforcement officials
of Member States with the tools to counter the criminal
use of both current and emerging ICTs. The convention
should also facilitate the provision of technical assistance
to developing States in countering such crimes, as well
as in capacity-building and technology transfer.
29. Ms. Rodríguez Mancia (Guatemala) said that
drug trafficking, transnational organized crime and
cybercrime required a strengthening of the constitutional
rule of law and a comprehensive judicial approach
through the promotion of preventive policies. Strengthened
institutions and the creation of public policy to counter
violence, exploitation and trafficking in persons led to
harmonized and optimized State policies to guarantee
victims full attention and protection. It was essential to
curb human trafficking, which was thought to affect more
people now than slavery had in the past, was currently
more profitable than international arms trafficking and
would soon outstrip illegal drug trafficking.
30. At the first Global Conference on Harnessing Data
to Improve Corruption Measurement, her Government
had presented progress made and actions taken by
Guatemala to prevent and combat corruption. The
Conference was designed to strengthen the abilities of
public policymakers, Government experts, civil society
and academia to ensure the sharing of experiences and
good practices in measuring and preventing corruption.
31. With regard to the use of information and
communication technology for criminal purposes, her
delegation called on States to ensure that the consensus-
based text of a legally binding instrument proposed by
the Ad Hoc Committee should include references to
human rights. The fight against cybercrime called for
cooperation between States that guaranteed sovereignty,
public order, security and full observance of human
rights. Drug use also posed a serious threat, with
synthetic drugs representing an invisible enemy, affecting
health and governance and impeding development.
Combating drug trafficking must be a joint and
coordinated effort in which information flowed
according to applicable national and international law
while guaranteeing access to justice and protecting
human rights.
32. Mr. Reza Bautista (Mexico) said that lack of
opportunities and persistent poverty and social
exclusion had enabled transnational organized crime to
flourish. In order to break away from the obsolete and
punitive paradigms that exacerbated the vulnerability of
the poorest sectors, Mexico proposed comprehensive
and complementary policies for combating crime and
ensuring criminal justice, together with preventative
A/C.3/78/SR.5
23-188658/17
strategies that were focused on achieving sustainable
development and leaving no one behind.
33. As part of those efforts, ICT provided not only
opportunities to boost development, expand rights, close
inequality gaps and promote inclusion, well-being and
justice, but also fertile ground for crime. His delegation
would therefore continue its active participation in the
Ad Hoc Committee, guided by respect for human rights
and fundamental freedoms.,
34. Mexico gave high priority to creating a global drug
policy that was comprehensive, balanced, fair and human,
focused on the health and well-being of individuals, and
that responded to contemporary realities. International
cooperation was essential to address that issue, together
with emerging threats such as the illicit manufacture,
trafficking and commercial distribution of synthetic
drugs. It was also crucial to acknowledge the links
between insecurity, organized crime and the manufacture
and distribution of small arms and light weapons, which
heightened the potential for violence and facilitated the
success of illicit business.
35. Responding to the multifaceted challenges posed
by transnational crime required effective international
cooperation among all relevant stakeholders:
Governments, the private sector and civil society. His
delegation called for the comprehensive implementation
of the Organized Crime Convention and the Protocols
thereto. In the lead-up to the twentieth anniversary of
the Convention against Corruption, States were urged to
strengthen international cooperation and multilateral
mechanisms to combat and prevent that scourge, which
was the main driver of numerous social ills.
36. Mr. Franz (Italy) said that his delegation was keen
to continue its long-standing cooperation with all
relevant international institutions in the field of crime
prevention and criminal justice, including UNODC.
Nevertheless, the intergovernmental process must be
enriched by the open and substantial participation of
civil society organizations in designing policies that
were closer to the needs of society at the grassroots
level. Twenty years after the entry into force of the
Organized Crime Convention, it was necessary to
continue to ensure its full implementation and the
operationalization of its review mechanism, adopted in
2018, including through the establishment of an
international day dedicated to the prevention of and
fight against all forms of transnational organized crime.
37. Ms. Hsieh (Thailand) said that access to justice
was a human right, guaranteed by the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. In order to
ensure the safe, secure and gender-responsive custody
of prisoners, it was necessary to build an accountable,
responsive and inclusive justice system, governed by the
United Nations Standard Minimum Rules for the
Treatment of Prisoners (the Nelson Mandela Rules) and
the United Nations Rules for the Treatment of Women
Prisoners and Non-custodial Measures for Women
Offenders (the Bangkok Rules). Justice systems should
also be constantly reviewed and strengthened to
guarantee transparency and accountability, as Thailand
had done in its 2022 legislation establishing a time
frame for all stages of judicial proceedings.
38. Technology should be used creatively but
regulated collectively, as it could both enhance justice
system efficiency and enable cross-border crime. On the
one hand, Thailand had created a mobile application to
facilitate requests for legal assistance-related financial
support and compensation for human rights violations.
On the other hand, technology-enabled transnational
crime required multi-stakeholder international efforts.
His delegation therefore supported the work of the Ad
Hoc Committee and encouraged Member States to work
together towards the conclusion of a draft convention by
February 2024.
39. The national referral mechanism recently
established by Thailand to ensure protection for victims
of trafficking in persons at every step had been designed
with a victim-centred approach, based on trauma-
informed care and the determination of the victim’s best
interest. The country’s long-standing policy of viewing
drug users as patients and encouraging treatment aimed
at preparing users for reintegration into society
prioritized prevention and rehabilitation, rather than
stigmatization. Its view that the drug problem was not
only a criminal matter, but also a health and social issue,
was reflected in its efforts to promote alternative
development, including through its joint organization of
upcoming events to commemorate the tenth anniversary
of the adoption of the International Guiding Principles
on Alternative Development.
40. Mr. Jesudason (Singapore) said that the pressing
and evolving challenges of cybercrime, radicalization
and the world drug problem transcended borders and
affected everyone. Effectively tackling those challenges
required close collaboration by all countries. Increased
economic digitalization had created new opportunities
for criminals to siphon funds and data. Cybercrime had
grown in scale, complexity and pervasiveness across
many jurisdictions, and numerous survey respondents in
South-East Asia reported experiencing online theft and
other scams.
41. As an open and connected economy, Singapore
was especially vulnerable, with millions of dollars lost
in 2022 alone. Singapore had organized a regional anti-
A/C.3/78/SR.5
9/1723-18865
scam conference of international law enforcement
stakeholders to discuss steps to improve coordination on
cross-border enforcement operations and facilitate
information-sharing. To strengthen safety nets against
online fraud, the country had established strong public-
private partnerships with banks, digital platforms and
other digital economy stakeholders. As the ASEAN
Lead Shepherd on Cybercrime, Singapore worked closely
with partners to enhance coordination, information-
sharing and joint enforcement in response to cybercrime.
Singapore would continue its close cooperation under
the Treaty on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal
Matters among Like‐Minded ASEAN Member Countries,
redouble its efforts towards the full implementation of
the Association’s broader cybercrime strategy and
continue its active involvement in the ongoing
discussions of the Ad Hoc Committee to develop a
global convention on cybercrime.
42. At its thirty-second session, the Commission on
Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice expressed strong
concern about the global online dissemination of
terrorist content. Young people were especially
vulnerable to the sway of extremist ideologies, peddled
through seemingly innocuous online spaces such as
gaming platforms. Singapore collaborated closely with
civil society, technology companies and other private
sector actors to address the serious threat of Internet-
driven radicalization and ensure that egregiously
harmful online content was quickly flagged and
removed. Schools, communities and other civil society
stakeholders had been asked to articulate a robust
counter-extremist narrative through education,
engagement and dialogue. The Online Safety Act was
updated in 2022 to effectively police platforms used by
extremists to radicalize citizens. Singapore would
continue to work closely with ASEAN, UNODC, the
International Criminal Police Organization and other
international organizations to counter the use of
technology to promote violent extremism.
43. The world drug problem continued to afflict the
lives of people worldwide and to fuel a host of other
harms, including by providing financial resources that
exacerbated armed conflicts, illegal resource extraction
and deforestation. Reaffirming its support for the
international drug control regime, including the three
drug control conventions, Singapore would continue to
work with UNODC and the Commission on Narcotic
Drugs on implementing the 2019 Ministerial Declaration
and looked forward to the 2024 mid-term review
thereof. Singapore remained determined to tackle trends
in transnational crime and supported global efforts to
effectively counter them, in order to ensure a safe and
secure future for all people.
44. Ms. Liu Han (China) said that transnational
organized crime, corruption and narcotics seriously
hindered the achievement of the Sustainable Development
Goals and constituted common challenges calling for
both national action and international cooperation. Her
Government took crime prevention and criminal justice
seriously. Guided by the rule of law and a people-
centred development approach, her country integrated
both leniency and rigour into its policies to build a safer
China. By 2022, comprehensive drug control, including
strict drug control policies, thorough implementation
and severe crackdown measures, had brought drug-
related crimes in China to a 10-year low.
45. China firmly upheld true multilateralism and an
international system with the United Nations at its core.
In recent years, her President had put forward global
initiatives on development, security and civilization to
apply Chinese solutions and wisdom to world problems.
Her country unswervingly fought corruption through
integrated zero-tolerance measures. As a responsible
major power, China fulfilled its obligations under the
Organized Crime Convention and the Convention
against Corruption and constructively participated in the
work of the Commission on Crime Prevention and
Criminal Justice and the Commission on Narcotic
Drugs. China had hosted the fourteenth ministerial
meeting of the signatories to the Mekong Memorandum
of Understanding on Drug Control, at which concrete
cooperation in regional drug control was further
deepened. In 2024, China would host the plenary of the
Global Operational Network of Anti-Corruption Law
Enforcement Authorities, further strengthening
international cooperation in anti-corruption, tracking
and asset recovery activities. Both Conventions should
be fully and effectively implemented, and the relevant
conferences of States parties and implementation review
mechanisms must adhere to the intergovernmental
nature thereof and respect the equality and sovereignty
of the parties. The obligations under the three drug
control conventions should also be faithfully met and
proper preparations made for the 2024 midterm review.
Negotiations on the draft United Nations convention
against cybercrime must be completed as soon as
possible, to provide a universal and solid legal basis for
cooperation in that regard.
46. In a recent white paper on the country’s initiatives
and actions for building a community with a shared
future for humanity, China had emphasized that global
challenges required global responses. China stood ready
to work with UNODC, other countries and relevant
international organizations to further consolidate
consensus on the rule of law, strengthen exchanges on
the basis of respect for sovereignty, equality and mutual
A/C.3/78/SR.5
23-1886510/17
benefit, expand cooperation in crime prevention and
criminal justice, continuously increase support for
developing countries and contribute to the
implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the building of
a shared future for humankind.
47. With regard to item 108, the use of ICTs for
criminal purposes was a challenge common to all States.
With new technologies giving rise to new types of
crimes, it became even more significant and urgent to
develop a United Nations convention against cybercrime.
Established pursuant to General Assembly resolutions
74/247 and 75/282, the Ad Hoc Committee had formally
launched negotiations on such a convention and drawn
a clear roadmap for submitting a draft to the Assembly
at its seventy-eighth session.
48. Her delegation commended all members of the Ad
Hoc Committee for their collaborative work in enabling
consensus in principle to be reached on certain elements
but noted that differences on some substantive issues
remained. It was hoped that all parties would further
strengthen communication and exchanges, participate
constructively in the work of the Committee and
promote the early conclusion of negotiations, with a
view to better meeting the urgent needs of the
international community in combating cybercrime. It
was also hoped that the new version of the draft
convention to be produced by the end of 2023 would be
comprehensive and balanced, fully reflect the positions
of all parties and lay a solid foundation for the
concluding session. Negotiations should be based both
on the interlinkage between new types of crime and ICT
and on national practices in combating such crimes.
They should also take into account the special needs of
developing countries. The convention should also
expand the scope of criminalization and international
cooperation with regard to combating cybercrime
beyond the limitations of regional conventions.
49. Mr. Sekonyana (South Africa) said that his
country had actively participated, at the thirty-second
session of the Commission on Crime Prevention and
Criminal Justice, in discussions on the follow-up to the
Fourteenth United Nations Congress on Crime
Prevention and Criminal Justice and in preparations for
the Fifteenth Crime Congress. Transnational organized
crime, including drug trafficking, trafficking in persons,
illicit financial flows, cybercrime and corruption,
contributed to other forms of crime and strained State
resources intended to address socioeconomic challenges,
to the detriment of human security and development. His
Government welcomed all UNODC initiatives aimed at
improving crime prevention and criminal justice
systems, promoting the rule of law and enhancing
international cooperation, while also providing
technical assistance and building Member States’
capacity to prevent and address all forms of crime, as a
shared responsibility.
50. Addressing the root causes of crime required
eradication of the triple challenges of poverty,
unemployment and inequality as primary threats to
socioeconomic development. Efforts by South Africa to
realize the 2030 Agenda, in particular Sustainable
Development Goal 16, included a capacity-building
programme for law enforcement officers, aimed at
increasing access to justice, raising awareness of
constitutional rights and strengthening participatory
democracy. In 2004, South Africa had signed and
ratified the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish
Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children,
supplementing the Organized Crime Convention, and, in
2013, had enacted the Prevention and Combating of
Trafficking in Persons Act, supporting it with
strengthened administrative procedures. His delegation
was grateful to its bilateral partners for assistance
extended to all countries in the Southern African region
in the fight against human trafficking.
51. Gender mainstreaming and the adoption of a
victim-centred approach should be at the centre of
efforts to combat trafficking in person. The use of ICTs
for criminal purposes continued to introduce new and
emerging forms of transnational organized crime. Only
a Member State-led, United Nations-based legally
binding instrument on countering such misuse could
enhance international cooperation, foster mutual legal
assistance and facilitate the real-time exchange of
information. South Africa remained committed to the
three international drug control conventions, as
supplemented by various political commitments, and
looked forward to the 2024 review of the 2019
Ministerial Declaration.
52. Mr. Khan (Pakistan) said that today’s increasingly
complex global landscape was characterized by multiple
and diverse challenges, with old and new conflicts
contributing to ongoing displacement and global forced
migration. The devastating impacts of climate change
provided new opportunities for organized criminal
groups, posing threats to existing legal frameworks and
to global peace and human security. Mutual respect for
religious and cultural beliefs was essential to combating
a worrisome increase in race-, ethnicity- and belief-
based intolerance and violence.
53. The forms, manifestations, causes and consequences
of the persistent world drug problem varied by region.
According to the International Narcotics Control Board,
cannabis legalization for non-medical purposes by some
countries had accelerated both daily use and possible
A/C.3/78/SR.5
11/1723-18865
negative health impacts. Such a counter-productive
approach would give rise to an increase in demand,
igniting the supply chain, with direct fallout on his
region and the world.
54. Money-laundering, cybercrime, corruption and the
smuggling of and trafficking in persons were other
forms of transnational organized crime that continued to
pose formidable challenges. On the twentieth anniversary
of the Organized Crime Convention, Member States
reaffirmed their joint commitment to combating the
scourge of transnational organized crime, which
continued to impede the rule of law, economic
development and the implementation of the 2030
Agenda. A holistic approach was needed to effectively
tackle root causes, while promoting social inclusion and
ensuring equal access to justice for all. Pakistan was
party to eight United Nations conventions, including the
Organized Crime Convention, and had recently acceded
to the Trafficking in Persons Protocol. Under the Anti-
Money Laundering Act 2010, Pakistan had created the
independent Financial Monitoring Unit to cooperate
with other countries to combat money-laundering and
terrorist financing.
55. The use of ICTs for criminal purposes facilitated
and enabled illicit financial flows and corruption, posing
a substantial challenge to global security, while the
exponential proliferation of disinformation through
online platforms and social media exacerbated social
discord, competing nationalisms, discrimination, hate
speech, stigmatization, racism, xenophobia, Islamophobia
and related intolerances. The international system in its
current form was ill-equipped to deal with growing
cybercrime, another scourge that required global efforts
to eradicate. Pakistan would continue to cooperate in the
upcoming concluding sessions of the Ad Hoc Committee,
which offered an unprecedented opportunity to arrive at
consensus, under the aegis of the United Nations, on
international cooperation to counter cybercrime.
56. Ms. Velichko (Belarus) said that her country
supported the central and coordinating role played by
the United Nations in consolidating international efforts
to fight transnational organized crime and took a
responsible approach to fulfilling the provisions of th e
Organized Crime Convention. As contemporary types of
crime could not be effectively combated through
national efforts alone, it was important to strengthen
international and practical cooperation, without any
barriers, to combat illegal migration, trafficking in
persons, illegal drug trafficking, terrorism and
cybercrime. The leading role played by UNODC in
strengthening international cooperation to fight
organized crime was welcome; its efforts should be
enhanced and its presence in New York expanded, given
the large number of States represented there.
57. Given its location, Belarus had long considered the
issue of countering trafficking in persons a priority in
the fight against transnational organized crime. With the
topic now a constant focus of the United Nations, her
delegation welcomed the adoption by the Commission
on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice, at its thirty-
second session, of resolution 32/1 on taking action
against trafficking in persons in business operations,
public procurement and supply chains for goods and
services.
58. Although ICT had been a boon for contemporary
global development, it had also made organized crime
more sophisticated and dangerous, enabled terrorist
organizations to execute their plans and spread terrorist
ideology and facilitated drug trafficking. Strengthening
cooperation in combating crimes that relied on ICT had
also been a priority for Belarus in its presidency of the
Collective Security Treaty Organization in 2023.
Belarus consistently advocated the development and
adoption of new norms and new legally binding
documents in that sphere; the draft convention being
elaborated by the Ad Hoc Committee could become a
key framework document. Without clear rules for
cyberspace, it was critically important that the document
reflect such principles as digital sovereignty and digital
neutrality. Always ready to cooperate to strengthen ICT
security, minimize risks and threats in cyberspace,
Belarus had put forward an initiative to create a concept
of digital good-neighbourliness and called for closer
collaboration among States to identify, investigate and
suppress criminal activities involving ICT, in particular
on the “dark net”.
59. Mr. Rizal (Malaysia) said that the advancement of
technology had led to both increasing dependence on
digital technologies and the emergence of new forms of
crime, with criminals moving their operations online to
conduct heinous activities across borders and jurisdictions.
Economic hardships resulting from the COVID-19
pandemic had also increased the susceptibility of
vulnerable groups to becoming victims of crime. Many
innocent Malaysian citizens had been lured by online
scams that had left them stranded or detained in
neighbouring countries, while crime syndicates
continuously adapted their tactics to entrap others.
60. Malaysia regularly updated its laws and policies to
cope with the evolving nature of criminal activities. A
whole-of-Government approach to crime prevention and
criminal justice, as well as close collaboration with
non-governmental and civil society organizations, had
led to a drop in the country’s crime rate in 2022. His
A/C.3/78/SR.5
23-1886512/17
delegation continued to support and actively participate
in the ongoing work of the Ad Hoc Committee and
looked forward to the finalization of a balanced an d
comprehensive convention on cybercrime. In 2022, his
Government established a special inter-agency
committee to assist Malaysians trafficked in overseas
job scams; combating the nefarious syndicates
responsible required collaborative and regional efforts.
During the recent mid-term review of the Twelfth
Malaysia Plan 2021–2025, it had announced upcoming
enhancements to existing legislation to more combat
cybercrime more effectively.
61. Illicit drug use and trafficking also continued to
pose a serious transnational threat, challenging State
security, stability and sovereignty. In 2023, Malaysia
had taken a multidimensional approach to tackling the
problem, through the launch of a mobile recovery
treatment programme, the implementation of prevention
and demand-reduction programmes and strengthened
cooperation with regional and international law
enforcement partners. His country remained committed
to the Organized Crime Convention and the three
international drug control conventions, as well as
regional and bilateral agreements to which it was party,
and stood ready to strengthen collaboration in combating
those scourges and in achieving the Sustainable
Development Goals and ensuring international peace
and security.
62. Ms. Zalabata Torres (Colombia) said that her
country supported the consolidation of a complete and
comprehensive peace and security policy aimed at
addressing the root causes of violence and crime by
closing the gaps in economic, employment and
educational opportunities that had led to persistent
conflict and regional crime. With a view to safeguarding
human dignity and freedoms, guaranteeing social
inclusion and reconciliation and fostering social peace
and well-being, her Government had adopted anti-crime
measures aimed at countering limited and delayed
access to justice and impunity. It was also implementing
a national security, defence and civic coexistence policy
for 2022–2026, prioritizing prosecution for money-
laundering, extortion and smuggling.
63. Given the transnational nature of multiple forms of
crime, the international community must continue to
support and implement cooperation and international
technical assistance frameworks, with due respect for
the rule of law and human rights. The new cybercrime
convention must provide for an end to illiteracy and the
digital divide, through an intersectoral perspective that
respected the rights of women and girls and other
vulnerable groups, while rejecting all forms of
discrimination. In its 2023–2033 policy to address drug
trafficking, Colombia prioritized the protection of life
and the environment, placing human rights, public health
and peacebuilding first. Emphasis was placed on reducing
the financial capacities of criminal organizations while
promoting development, employment and education
opportunities, in particular in rural areas. Colombia
would continue its efforts to counter the world drug
problem and related crimes, while ensuring respect for
human rights.
64. Ms. Arab Bafrani (Islamic Republic of Iran) said
that crime had become increasingly complex and
transnational in nature, which had created challenges for
Member States, particularly developing countries. In
order to achieve the underlying purposes of international
instruments related to crime, barriers and impediments
to asset recovery should be removed.
65. International cooperation was essential to ensuring
that criminal networks did not simply relocate to regions
with weak enforcement. Iran had therefore entered into
a number of bilateral treaties related to legal assistance
and extradition, which would enable law enforcement
and judicial authorities to strengthen cooperation, share
information and coordinate legal proceedings. Her
country had played a leading role in fighting trafficking
in persons and drugs in Western Asia.
66. In the light of the increasing abuse by criminals of
ICT to further their goals, the Islamic Republic of Iran
reaffirmed its continued support for the work of the Ad
Hoc Committee to Elaborate a Comprehensive
International Convention on Countering the Use of
Information and Communications Technologies for
Criminal Purposes. The upcoming negotiations in that
regard should be aimed at producing a comprehensive,
well-balanced document that took into consideration the
concerns of developing countries.
67. In 2022, her Government had adopted a policy
paper regarding the evolution of the judicial system,
with the aim of expanding access to justice, preventing
crime and fighting corruption. That paper had been
drafted with a view to considering the root causes of
crime and critical challenges to access to justice. In
addition, the President had unveiled a plan on preventing
and combating administrative and economic corruption
that incorporated the principles of transparency,
meritocracy and effective and efficient oversight.
68. Her delegation was deeply concerned about the
application of unilateral coercive measures, as they
violated the principles of international law and the
Charter of the United Nations and hindered global and
national responses to crime and corruption. Such
unlawful measures must be eliminated, and reparations
should be made to countries for any harms inflicted.
A/C.3/78/SR.5
13/1723-18865
69. Mr. Nascimento Dias (Brazil) said that his
Government had adopted a balanced and multidisciplinary
approach to the world drug problem that respected
human rights, tackled social vulnerabilities and racial
discrimination, emphasized health and environmental
protection and harnessed scientific evidence. Special
attention was given to vulnerable groups such as
women, Indigenous Peoples, Black people, children and
adolescents.
70. The intersection of drug trafficking and
environmental organized crime was a particular
challenge in Brazil, as the Amazon was the site of a
growing number of illicit drug routes. The Ministry of
Justice was strengthening public security in those
territories while protecting Indigenous Peoples and local
communities. The Government was also strengthening
security cooperation with other countries of the Amazon
through bilateral agreements and regional organizations.
71. Combating cybercrime was also a priority. A
special directorate of the federal police for combating
cybercrime was charged with preventing and suppressing
criminal offences such as child sexual abuse and
electronic fraud. Brazil had ratified the Council of
Europe Convention on Cybercrime and was committed
to reaching consensus on an international convention on
cybercrime.
72. Brazil, as a country of origin, transit and
destination for victims of trafficking in persons, had
acceded to the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish
Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children,
supplementing the Organized Crime Convention. The
country had also enacted legislation to prevent and
suppress domestic and international human trafficking
and to provide assistance to victims.
73. Mr. Leonidchenko (Russian Federation) said that
his delegation consistently supported the building of
international efforts to fight the most pressing criminal
challenges under the coordinating role of the United
Nations. There was no place for hidden agendas or
double standards, and cooperation should be carried out
in good faith, on the basis of equal rights and mutual
respect. Unfortunately, however, certain countries
politicized multilateral cooperation in the fight against
crime, in particular in the areas of mutual legal assistance
in criminal cases and extradition, undermining the
effectiveness of crime prevention. Those countries were
pursuing their own interests and essentially taking sides
with transnational organized crime. The focus should be
on finding effective ways to eradicate crime globally
through cooperation among law enforcement agencies.
74. The Russian Federation called for the development
of an additional protocol to the Organized Crime
Convention that would address wildlife crime. The
proceeds of such crime mainly benefited Western
organized crime syndicates. His delegation noted the
work to review the implementation of the Convention
and its Protocols and emphasized the inadmissibility of
attempts by Western States to change the recently
approved procedures and rules of that instrument.
75. The Russian Federation supported capacity-
building for international anti-corruption cooperation in
accordance with the United Nations Convention against
Corruption. It was important to retain the impartial and
intergovernmental nature of treaty mechanisms. His
delegation categorically rejected attempts by certain
countries to raise at the Conference of the States Parties
to the Convention issues of international security that
went far beyond the mandate of that forum. The tenth
session of the Conference should be constructive, with
particular attention paid to implementation of the
decisions of the General Assembly special session
against corruption, held in 2021. The Russian Federation
advocated the removal of barriers that hindered the
effective return of revenue obtained through corruption
to the countries of origin, the strengthening of
international cooperation and the development of
anti-corruption education and outreach activities.
76. Efforts should be made for a drug-free world, and
States should comply with the international drug control
conventions. The Russian Federation strongly opposed
any revision or watering down of those conventions and
condemned the legalization of drug use for non-medical
purposes. A comprehensive and balanced approach to
combat the global drug threat should include measures
to eradicate the illegal cultivation of opium poppies,
coca leaf and cannabis and to combat the manufacture
of and trade in synthetic substances. The March 2024
mid-term review should consider all aspects of the drug
problem in the spirit of the core documents previously
adopted by consensus. The Russian Federation was
categorically opposed to the politicization of counter-
narcotics operations and interference in the internal
affairs of States on the pretext of combating drugs.
77. The Russian Federation was concerned by the
situation in Afghanistan after 20 years of neglect of the
country’s drug problem by the occupying forces of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization coalition and as a
result of the freezing of Afghan financial assets by the
West. Drug trafficking in Ukraine was no less of a threat.
78. Turning to item 108, his delegation wished to draw
attention to the failure of the United States authorities to
issue visas to members of the Russian delegation, in
flagrant violation of the Headquarters Agreement and in
an attempt at political pressure and blackmail. In hosting
A/C.3/78/SR.5
23-1886514/17
the Headquarters, the United States had assumed the
obligation to enable Member States to participate in the
work of the Organization. The United States authorities
had weaponized the visa issue not only against Russian
representatives, but also against those of other countries.
As a result, Member States found themselves on an
unequal footing in the negotiation process, which
undermined the sovereign equality of States, in violation
of the Charter.
79. The situation was even worse with regard to the
Ad Hoc Committee to elaborate a cybercrime
convention, where the United States had consistently
interfered with the work of the Russian delegation and
had prevented the head of the delegation and the
competent experts from participating in the negotiation
process. Washington was deliberately disrupting the
efforts to fulfil the mandate of the Ad Hoc Special
Committee under resolution 74/247, and in fact the
United States had voted against that resolution. His
delegation requested the Secretariat to report on that
serious Charter violation to the Secretary-General and
to ensure that the matter was resolved. The Secretariat
should ensure unhindered access to the United Nations
in New York for representatives of all Member States.
80. The spike in ICT-related crimes was being
compounded by a lack of relevant universal cooperation
mechanisms, despite the fact that such crime was a
profitable business worth trillions of dollars. The Ad
Hoc Committee had been established at the initiative of
the Russian Federation, with support from dozens of
other States. During the negotiations, those countries
that had voted against the Committee’s creation were
trying, with the support of Western monopolies, to water
down a future convention and make it an incomplete
copy of the Council of Europe Convention on
Cybercrime. A comprehensive convention, as called for
unambiguously in General Assembly resolution 74/247,
would lay the foundation for expanded criminalization;
the implementation of procedural measures; international
cooperation; and the exchange of information and
electronic evidence in real time. Another priority of the
Ad Hoc Committee was the development of universal
terminology for the convention that would apply
regardless of any future changes in technology.
81. The most socially dangerous crimes such as
terrorism and extremism could not be left out, but the
opponents of the convention cited the difficulty of
reaching consensus in that regard. While the Western
countries had legal mechanisms to counter ICT
terrorism and extremism to protect their own region,
apparently the rest of the world was not worthy of them.
82. Ms. Mimran Rosenberg (Israel) said that her
delegation acknowledged the important work of the
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime in countering
the world drug problem, terrorism, organized crime and
corruption. The capacity-building efforts of the Office
in the areas of synthetic drugs and terrorism addressed
concerns shared by many Member States.
83. States in the Middle East, North Africa, Southern
Europe and parts of Asia were concerned about the
influx of the synthetic drug Captagon. Although its
chemical composition could vary widely, the drug was
often traced to a specific source: the Syrian Arab
Republic. Captagon often led to life-long addiction and
was linked to crime and even terrorism. The entity
behind its illicit manufacture should be held
accountable, and special attention was needed to
enhance control of the export of precursor chemicals to
the Syrian Arab Republic.
84. Mr. Habashneh (Jordan) said that the spread of
drugs, terrorist crime and violence was increasing
globally, which threatened regional and international
peace and security and hampered development. Jordan
stressed the need for concerted efforts to address those
scourges. Jordan stressed the importance of compliance
by Member States with the drug control conventions.
85. International cooperation was needed in the
prosecution and punishment of transnational crimes,
especially in the light of the growing global threat of
cybercrime. At the national level, Jordan had recently
enacted a cybercrime law that paid special attention to
members of vulnerable groups and sought to foster
social harmony and address incitement to violence. The
country had also recently convened its first
cybersecurity summit, at which representatives of States
and international organizations had discussed the
dangers of cybercrime and the cooperation mechanisms
needed to combat it.
86. Jordan pursued a counter-terrorism policy that
involved harsh penalties for any act of terrorism. The
Government had helped to draft numerous international
anti-terrorist agreements and worked closely with the
Office of Counter-Terrorism. Jordan faced challenges
related to drug smuggling owing to the spread of
terrorist groups from across its border with the Syrian
Arab Republic. Security agencies were making effective
efforts in that regard and, since the beginning of the
year, had arrested a number of infiltrators and seized
drones.
87. Jordan had launched a strategy for the period
2020–2025 on halting the spread of drugs, treating
addiction and reintegrating victims into the community.
It was important for States to fulfil their international
A/C.3/78/SR.5
15/1723-18865
obligations to prevent the production and cross-border
smuggling of drugs.
88. Mr. Shaker (Saudi Arabia) said that his country
was taking all necessary measures to combat the use of
ICTs for criminal purposes, in line with instruments for
the suppression of trafficking in persons, trafficking in
organs and corruption. Such measures included a law to
address crimes committed by means of communications
networks, such as crimes related to breaches of private
data. His delegation welcomed efforts made to address
new and evolving forms of crime, such as trafficking in
persons for the purposes of forced criminality.
89. Saudi Arabia had launched two international
initiatives aimed at protecting individuals from
cybercrime. The first was aimed at protecting children
in cyberspace by raising awareness among children,
parents, teachers and decision-makers globally about
cyberthreats such as identity theft, online harassment
and ideological influence. The second initiative
strengthened women’s cybersecurity capacities in order
to enhance their professional development and increase
human capital. His delegation reiterated its support for
the Ad Hoc Committee and hoped that a consensus draft
would be reached that reflected all concerns of the
international community.
90. Saudi Arabia was concerned about the misuse of
ICTs for the purposes of trafficking in illicit drugs and
chemical precursors, in particular through the dark web
with encrypted communications and virtual payments.
Saudi Arabia stressed the importance of strengthening
bilateral, regional and international cooperation and
encouraging the exchange of information to counter
those threats.
91. Ms. Banaken Elel (Cameroon) said that her
country had recently adopted a law to protect children
online that clearly delineated the roles and
responsibilities of content providers, search engines,
Internet forum administrators and social media
promoters, whether natural or legal persons. Each of
those actors had an obligation to ensure the safety of
children in cyberspace through awareness-raising,
training and collaboration with the public sector. The
law mandated the suspension of Internet or social media
access for consumers or creators of content damaging to
children. In emphasizing public-private collaboration,
the law highlighted the importance of international
cooperation in that area.
92. Given the cross-border nature of cybercrime, it
was essential that developing countries had the capacity
to ensure compliance with international standards. Her
delegation welcomed the ongoing discussions regarding
cooperation and capacity-building in the Ad Hoc
Committee. All countries, in particular the most
vulnerable, should be engaged in the fight against
evolving risks.
93. Cybercriminals did not respect borders, national
laws or State sovereignty. Her delegation therefore
welcomed the provisions on State sovereignty in the
draft convention, including with regard to joint
investigation and mutual assistance.
94. Mr. Valido Martínez (Cuba) said that national and
international initiatives to combat crime should be
accompanied by efforts to promote development and a
more just, democratic and equitable new international
order. They should be State-led, cooperative and
non-punitive. It was important to avoid country rankings
and unilateral lists, which only contributed to polarization
and selectivity, in particular against the South.
95. The work of the Commission on Crime Prevention
and Criminal Justice and the Commission on Narcotic
Drugs should not be duplicated by other forums. Cuba
recognized the importance of the congresses on crime
prevention and criminal justice and supported the
mandate of the Ad Hoc Committee.
96. The growing use of ICTs for criminal and
destabilizing purposes was a matter of concern. For
decades, the Government of the United States had used
social networks to incite destabilizing violence and
crime in Cuba in order to subvert the constitutional order
freely chosen by the Cuban people.
97. Drug abuse and dependence were a serious health
problem and a threat to security and economic and social
development. Cuba supported the existing international
framework for drug control, as well as the
intergovernmental bodies that monitored compliance
with the three international drug control conventions,
and considered the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to be
the main United Nations body for dealing with the
global drug problem.
98. Cuba had a zero-tolerance policy on the production,
consumption and trafficking of drugs. Cuba fulfilled its
international obligations in the fight against organized
crime and had an outstanding record when it came to
addressing international terrorism, drug trafficking,
money-laundering, piracy and trafficking in persons.
99. Mr. Heartney (United States of America) said that
emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence,
biotechnology and advanced semiconductors had the
power to transform lives and revolutionize industries.
Artificial intelligence in particular could help persons
with disabilities to access information, assist human
rights defenders in holding governments accountable
and provide early warnings of climate crises.
A/C.3/78/SR.5
23-1886516/17
100. Those technologies must, however, be designed,
developed and used responsibly. The United States
remained concerned about the misuse of technology to
facilitate censorship, transnational repression, unlawful
surveillance and disinformation. Such misuse had been
exacerbated in some countries by repressive laws
intended to silence critics and limit factual reporting.
The United States was especially concerned about the
proliferation of commercial spyware to target human
rights defenders, journalists and diplomats. For
example, civil society experts had reported finding
commercial spyware in the cell phone of a prominent
Russian journalist. Such digital repression could lead, in
the most egregious cases, to arbitrary detentions,
disappearances and extrajudicial killings.
101. The Freedom Online Coalition, in partnership with
stakeholders, continued to address those challenges. The
United States, as Chair, had recently hosted a meeting
of Coalition members and key partners to highlight
successes in the promotion of technologies to advance
democratic values and preserve an open, interoperable,
reliable and secure Internet that would support a robust
and inclusive digital ecosystem. During that meeting,
the United States had announced its intent to develop a
pledge on responsible practices in the development,
procurement and use of artificial intelligence by
Governments. Coalition members had also committed to
a set of guiding principles on government use of
surveillance technologies.
102. Ms. Bravo (Ecuador) said that, in 2014, her
country had enacted a law that defined and classified
organized crime and the crime of illicit association, in
accordance with the Organized Crime Convention. In
recent years, transnational organized crime had become
a significant public security problem requiring concerted
action both nationally and internationally. At the local
level, Ecuador had established a national strategy
against organized crime for the period 2023–2030 that
was related to the recommendations of the Kyoto
Declaration on Advancing Crime Prevention, Criminal
Justice and the Rule of Law: Towards the Achievement
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and
other international processes. The country had received
technical assistance and methodological support from
the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime to prevent
organized crime, prosecute organized crime groups,
promote cooperation and protect victims, witnesses and
officials.
103. Ecuador had established a national cybersecurity
committee that had spearheaded initiatives related to
capacity-building and the harmonization of legal
instruments. Technological developments had been
accompanied by new gender-based threats, which had
widened the digital gender gap and constrained women’s
participation in the public sphere. In addition, figures
from the International Telecommunications Union
showed that 2.7 billion people globally, mostly women
and girls, lacked Internet access. It was therefore
essential to increase cooperation between Member
States, the private sector and civil society organizations
to design and implement policies to address gender-
based violence in the digital sphere.
104. Ecuadorian institutions, with technical assistance
from the Council of Europe, had been working to
elaborate a national strategy on cybercrime in line with
the negotiations taking place in the Ad Hoc Committee.
Regional efforts could help to confront the growing
challenges of cybercrime and protect freedom of
information.
105. Ms. Stadnicka (Poland), speaking as a youth
delegate, said that digital technologies facilitated the
acquisition of crucial knowledge and skills, created
financial opportunities, enabled quicker and more
reliable communication and enhanced world trade.
Internet access had been an invaluable tool in increasing
transparency and accountability in governance and
supporting democratic institutions.
106. At the same time, however, some Governments
used the Internet for surveillance or to suppress
opposition by shutting off Internet access during
protests, which violated freedom of expression.
Cyberattacks could bring down Governments or disrupt
elections from abroad. In view of their cross-border
nature, cooperation among Member States was
important. The war in Ukraine had demonstrated the
benefit of investing in cybercrime prevention
mechanisms, experts and technology.
107. It was a cause of deep concern that the Internet had
been used to spread hatred, disinformation and lies
targeting people in vulnerable situations and members
of minority groups. Anonymity in the digital sphere
made it difficult to track the sources of such speech, and
appropriate oversight and regulations were lacking. It
was crucial to increase education and transparency
regarding the origin and financing of information
sources and to support self-regulation initiatives by
online platforms and journalists. In 2021, Poland had
hosted the Internet Governance Forum, which had
included participation from young people to share their
experiences and knowledge regarding digital security.
108. Mr. Marwa (Nigeria) said that his country had
previously served as a transit point for cocaine and
heroin, and local production of cannabis and
methamphetamine had grown. The drug situation was
fuelled by poverty, unemployment, peer influence,
A/C.3/78/SR.5
17/1723-18865
armed conflict, school attrition and internal displacement.
In response, Nigeria was adopting a whole-of-society
approach to countering drug trafficking by ramping up
law enforcement efforts to halt the illicit supply of
drugs, while also promoting evidence-based prevention
and treatment programmes. Strategies to reduce drug
demand, including a 24-hour hotline, were helping to
address stigma and discrimination against people with
drug use disorders.
109. Nigeria, with input from stakeholders at all levels
of government, had been implementing a national drug
control master plan for the period 2021–2025, which
was aimed at disrupting drug trafficking cartels and
targeting illicit drug wealth. The Government had also
worked together with non-governmental organizations
on an anti-drug abuse awareness campaign that was
targeted at community leaders and students.
110. The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency had
successfully apprehended a total of 32,922 drug
offenders between January 2021 and June 2023. As
cartels involved in the cultivation of illicit drugs were
causing deforestation, the Government was implementing
an alternative development plan to provide farmers with
agricultural loans and improved seedlings. Nigeria was
also addressing the use of the dark web by drug
traffickers.
111. Mr. Wallace (Jamaica), speaking on behalf of the
States members of the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) said that the Caribbean Community
continued to grapple with worrying levels of criminal
activity, owing partly to its porous borders. Such activity
included the trans-shipment of illegal drugs and firearms,
money-laundering, irregular migration, trafficking in
persons and emerging threats in cyberspace. CARICOM
remained committed to implementing programmes to
address the social determinants of crime, raising public
awareness, mobilizing regional action to tackle the
multidimensional aspects of crime and ensuring access
to justice. The majority of serious crimes, particularly
those that were gang- and drug-related, had been
committed with the use of illegal firearms sourced from
outside the region.
112. CARICOM also acknowledged that the region had
been a lucrative site for trafficking in persons. Recently,
the Caribbean Community Implementation Agency for
Crime and Security, through funding from the Joint
Fund for CARICOM–Spain Scientific and Technical
Cooperation, had implemented a project aimed at
building the capacity of criminal justice personnel to
combat trafficking. The project facilitated cooperation
with strategic partners on matters of mutual security.
Given that trafficked persons often moved between
Latin America and the Caribbean, the Central American
Integration System had been included in joint regional
exercises with a view to developing joint protocols to
combat trafficking in persons and migrant smuggling.
113. In recent years, and especially in the wake of the
COVID-19 pandemic, both the public and private
sectors in the States members of CARICOM had
increased their reliance on technology and innovation in
order to foster economic resilience to external shocks.
While participation in the global digital economy had
brought many socioeconomic benefits, it had also given
rise to corruption and financial crimes, including
money-laundering, and cybercrimes that ranged from
minor breaches to full-scale attacks on government
institutions. Small developing States in particular were
among the most vulnerable to cyberattacks, owing to
inadequate ICT infrastructure. In order to counter the
phishing scams, identity theft and ransomware attacks
that had become common in the region, CARICOM
member States continued to enhance their domestic
capacities and work together to harmonize their laws
and operational processes.
114. CARICOM also recognized the need for enhanced
global cooperation on cybersecurity through technical
assistance, capacity-building and information exchange.
To that end, CARICOM remained engaged in the work
of the Ad Hoc Committee to Elaborate a Comprehensive
International Convention on Countering the Use of
Information and Communications Technologies for
Criminal Purposes. At the most recent negotiating
session of the Ad Hoc Committee, the members had
recognized that increased political will was needed for a
unified global response to the challenges posed by the
use of ICTs for criminal purposes. The creation of an
international legally binding and future-proof instrument
would benefit all Member States.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.