United Nations E/2024/SR.5
Economic and Social Council Distr.: General
2 February 2024
Original: English
This record is subject to correction.
Corrections should be submitted in one of the working languages. They should be set forth in
a memorandum and also incorporated in a copy of the record. They should be sent as soon as
possible to the Chief of the Documents Management Section ( dms@un.org).
Corrected records will be reissued electronically on the Official Document System of the
United Nations (http://documents.un.org/).
24-01746 (E)
*2401746*
2024 session
27 July 2023–24 July 2024
Coordination segment
Summary record of the 5th meeting
Held at Headquarters, New York, on Wednesday, 31 January 2024, at 10 a.m.
President: Mr. Rakhmetullin (Vice-President) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Kazakhstan)
Contents
Agenda item 8: Coordination segment
Opening of the segment
Panel discussion: “Translating commitments into action to get back on track,
tackle inequality and eradicate poverty in times of multiple crises ”
Panel discussion: “Resilient and sustainable food systems: the path to
advance Sustainable Development Goal 2 and beyond”
E/2024/SR.5
24-017462/11
In the absence of Ms. Narváez Ojeda (Chile),
Mr. Rakhmetullin (Kazakhstan), Vice-President, took
the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m.
Agenda item 8: Coordination segment
Opening of the segment
1. The President, opening the coordination segment
of the Economic and Social Council, said that the
current segment was taking place at a critical juncture in
the pursuit of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development. Halfway through that ambitious journey,
efforts must be intensified to transform the world. The
challenges faced – persistent inequalities, escalating
conflicts, climate change, rapid technological
advancement and debt distress – not only hindered
progress, but also underscored the interconnected nature
of global issues.
2. The reversal of hard-won sustainable development
gains was reflected in increasing extreme poverty and
hunger, exacerbating global food insecurity and
malnutrition. At the same time, the world was confronted
with the triple environmental crises of climate change,
biodiversity loss and pollution; technological
advancements that demanded proper frameworks and
adjustments; and escalating humanitarian needs. It was
estimated that nearly 300 million people would need
assistance and protection in 2024. An integrated
approach to foster prosperity while addressing the
impacts of climate change was more crucial than ever.
Strategies must balance ecological conservation with
the needs of communities and economies worldwide.
3. The increasing digitalization of societies
introduced new dimensions. The advancement of digital
technologies, including artificial intelligence and
biotechnology, presented both opportunities and
challenges. The future must be navigated responsibly,
ensuring that the benefits of the digital era were
harnessed effectively and ethically. Education and
lifelong learning were also imperative in equipping
individuals with the necessary skills and knowledge to
contribute effectively to the dynamic environment.
4. The current challenges must be addressed through
holistic approaches that recognized the synergies
between the three dimensions of sustainable
development, as well as the interconnectedness of the
Council’s work across the different pillars of the
Organization. Breaking silos and using interlinkages to
create multiplier effects was the supreme transformative
action needed to achieve the 2030 Agenda.
5. Each Sustainable Development Goal – whether it
pertained to ending poverty and hunger, combating
climate change, ensuring inclusive and quality
education for all, or building strong, resilient and
enabling institutions – was part of an integrated
framework that recognized the interconnected but also
mutually reinforcing nature of the Goals. The Council’s
strategies and action must reflect that complexity and
establish a solid foundation for creating sustainable and
resilient societies and economies, fortified to endure and
adapt to future challenges and uncertainties. That was
where the coordination segment could play an integral
role. Coordination was the key to turbocharging the
impact of implementation efforts towards the
achievement of the 2030 Agenda at all levels.
6. The international community must build on the
knowledge and experience of the Council’s subsidiary
bodies and the United Nations system, including the
specialized agencies, and provide effective guidance for
the coordinated and coherent implementation of
sustainable, resilient and innovative solutions to achieve
the Goals and leave no one behind.
7. Robust institutions and effective financing
mechanisms were crucial in achieving the Goals.
Institutions at all levels – local, national, regional and
global – must be transformed to restore trust in
governance systems and help achieve the aspirations of
current and future generations everywhere to live in a
peaceful, prosperous and healthy planet. The Secretary-
General’s proposed stimulus for the Goals and the call
for an annual increase in financing for sustainable
development of at least $500 billion a year would be
instrumental in augmenting financing, tackling debt
challenges and paving the way for a reformed
international financial architecture that enabled just,
inclusive and equitable sustainable development for all.
8. The Council must reinforce its commitment to
strengthened global coordination and cooperation and
act accordingly. He called on Council members to
reinvigorate their commitment to the 2030 Agenda and
give a decisive push forward on the path towards a
peaceful, just and sustainable world for people and the
planet.
9. Ms. Narváez Ojeda (Chile), speaking in her
capacity as President of the Council, said that the
coordination segment would focus on the main theme of
the Council’s 2024 session: “Reinforcing the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development and eradicating
poverty in times of multiple crises: the effective delivery
of sustainable, resilient and innovative solutions.” The
Council’s recent partnership forum had also focused on
that theme, holding discussions to advance sustainable
E/2024/SR.5
3/1124-01746
development through inclusive multi-stakeholder
dialogues. That demonstrated the Council’s
commitment to deepen multi-stakeholder collaboration
and promote inclusiveness for the accelerated
implementation of the 2030 Agenda. In that context, she
wished to share the key messages from the partnership
forum.
10. The 2024 partnership forum had emphasized the
pivotal role that effective partnerships played in the
pursuit of sustainable development. Those partnerships
served as a crucial mechanism for pooling resources and
expertise, ensuring that efforts translated into tangible
impacts on the ground. Throughout the discussions, it
had been widely recognized that the success of
partnerships hinged on respecting country ownership
and local context while upholding stringent
accountability measures. The comprehensive nature of
multi-stakeholder partnerships had been underscored,
transcending sectors, institutions and geographical
borders to tackle the interconnected challenges faced.
11. Member States had underscored the urgent need
for concerted efforts to leave no one behind, especially
those grappling with the depths of poverty and the
weakest capacities. Participants had also collectively
advocated for more open and inclusive engagement,
emphasizing the need to focus on vulnerable groups and
mobilize resources to overcome various capacity
barriers.
12. The partnership forum had yielded tangible
proposals, including initiatives and alliances that would
significantly influence the discussions at the high-level
political forum on sustainable development to be held in
July 2024, and subsequently at the Summit of the Future
in September 2024.
13. The coordination segment had demonstrated the
ability of the Council to step up and fulfil its key role as
a central mechanism for coordinating and guiding the
Council’s subsidiary bodies and United Nations system
entities, including the specialized agencies, on
economic, social, environmental and related matters to
ensure coherence in the implementation of the 2030
Agenda.
14. She encouraged Council members to carry forward
the momentum generated by recent partnership forum
and provide concrete guidance to the Council system on
transformative policies and actions that would reinforce
and accelerate the 2030 Agenda, leaving no one behind.
15. Mr. Rattray (Chef de Cabinet), speaking on
behalf of the Secretary-General, said that the
coordination segment was uniquely positioned to bring
agencies and bodies together from across the entire
United Nations system, and to contribute to the
Council’s main theme for the current session.
16. As the Council was aware, progress in achieving
the Sustainable Development Goals was falling short
and the full force of the United Nations must be
mustered to accelerate the pace of progress. The theme
of reinforcing the 2030 Agenda and eradicating poverty
was also a reminder that the acceleration efforts must be
made in a world already struggling with frequent and
interconnected crises, ferocious conflicts, climate
catastrophe and enduring poverty and inequality.
17. Meanwhile, the developing world was
experiencing its weakest economic growth in three
decades. Soaring borrowing costs had pushed more than
half of the world’s poorest countries to the brink of a
debt crisis. Tightening fiscal budgets were preventing
Governments from investing in the Goals and rampant
geopolitical mistrust and divisions were blocking
effective solutions. Moreover, the institutions needed to
bring countries together to tackle global problems were,
in so many ways, either not fit for purpose or simply did
not exist; from the outdated, dysfunctional and unfair
global financial system to the Security Council that did
not reflect the modern multipolar world and advances in
artificial technology that remained outside of the global
governance framework.
18. In that difficult context, the Economic and Social
Council could help to deliver meaningful change and
justice for all countries. There were two areas where the
Council could push for progress over the coming year.
The first lay in the realization that the time had come to
build on the recent Sustainable Development Goals
Summit. At the Summit, world leaders had adopted a
political declaration in support of a stimulus of $500
billion for the Goals and in response to the long-
standing calls to reform the global financial
architecture, in order to better respond to the needs of
developing countries. They had also endorsed a series of
high-impact initiatives in targeted areas, from education
and digital transformation to food systems and
renewable energy. He therefore urged the Council and
its commissions and expert bodies to develop tangible
and scalable policies proposals and recommendations
for discussion at the high-level political forum in July
2024.
19. In 2024, the first biennial summit would be
convened to build consensus on ambitious and
politically feasible reform proposals in preparation for
the Fourth International Conference on Financing for
Development and the proposed world social summit in
2025.
E/2024/SR.5
24-017464/11
20. The Council’s ideas and commitment would be
needed to help revamp the multilateral system. The
forthcoming Summit of the Future provided a unique
opportunity to advance meaningful reforms of the
governance of international and norm-setting
institutions, and to promote ideas to rebuild trust and
strengthen multilateral collaboration in key areas, from
the New Agenda for Peace to artificial intelligence and
reinforcing the commitment to human rights.
21. The commitment to leaving no one behind was
quite frankly in danger of capsizing. All hands were thus
needed on deck to right the course and live up to the
great promise and potential of the 2030 Agenda. Council
members must commit to work together to accelerate
progress. He was grateful to them for lending their
ideas, expertise and energy to that important endeavour.
Panel discussion: “Translating commitments into
action to get back on track, tackle inequality and
eradicate poverty in times of multiple crises”
22. Mr. Montalvo (Chair of the Permanent Forum on
Indigenous Issues), panellist, said that the health of the
planet was related to that fact that most people believed
that they were separate from the natural environment.
Concepts such as the green economy, the bioeconomy,
the circular economy and nature-based solutions were
not the same as the vision of Indigenous Peoples centred
on Mother Earth.
23. The path towards achieving the Sustainable
Development Goals must be based on the recognition of
Indigenous Peoples as having rights and being part of
the solution. For example, lithium-based batteries
generated fewer emissions than fossil fuels, but 85 per
cent of lithium reserves were located on or near
Indigenous lands. The drive to exploit more land in
search of lithium to promote “green energy” was
causing the degradation of the water, air and everything
else in those territories, along with the violation of the
rights of Indigenous Peoples.
24. In addition to the increasing encroachment on
Indigenous lands and territories to exploit the minerals
and rare earth elements needed for the energy transition,
the promotion of carbon credit contracts was also
dismantling the basic rights of Indigenous Peoples. The
Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues was working to
address such issues.
25. In the annual General Assembly resolution on
Indigenous Peoples, Member States had recognized that
Indigenous leaders and Indigenous human rights and
environmental defenders were increasingly losing their
lives. Measures must therefore be strengthened to
protect Indigenous Peoples and prevent the proliferation
of hate speech against them in all scenarios, including
as migrants.
26. Nevertheless, there were some recent positive
examples of progress. In 2023, States had agreed on a
resolution to develop a global plan of action on the
health of Indigenous Peoples, in conjunction with
Indigenous Peoples, to be presented to the World Health
Assembly in 2026. General recommendation No. 39
(2022) on the rights of Indigenous women and girls of
the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination
against Women also represented an important step
forward that should guide development policies in
countries. In addition, Governments had agreed to
implement the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity
Framework, in which they had highlighted the
importance of Indigenous territories. It was vital that
measures now be taken both to recognize the
biodiversity conservation capacity of those territories
and to reflect their contributions. At the same time, any
measures related to the conservation, restoration and
funding of ecosystems must henceforth avoid violating
the rights of Indigenous Peoples.
27. The fact that the 2024 session of the Permanent
Forum would coincide with the holding of the Economic
and Social Council forum on financing for development
follow-up provided an opportunity to establish a
connection between both venues. Indigenous Peoples
must have a voice in the run-up to the Fourth
International Conference on Financing for Development
in 2025.
28. The President asked what policies could be
adapted by the most vulnerable countries to bridge the
gaps towards achieving sustainable development. He
also wished to know how the World Bank was redefining
its strategies to effectively address poverty and
inequality, and accelerate implementation of the 2030
Agenda.
29. Mr. Lopez-Calva (Global Director for Poverty
and Equity, World Bank Group), panellist, said that
Sustainable Development Goal 1 was currently out of
reach and the continuation of business-as-usual would
not end by poverty by 2030. After decades of impressive
progress in which more than 1 billion people had been
lifted out of poverty, the pace of progress had slowed.
Even before the period of recent crisis, the outlook for
achieving Goal 1 had not been promising. At the current
pace, 7 per cent of the world’s population would still
live in extreme poverty in 2030. It was therefore
necessary to rethink how policies could unleash the
productive capacity of the poor to launch a process of
inclusive and sustainable growth. However, that task
E/2024/SR.5
5/1124-01746
would not be easy and he wished to draw attention to
three critical challenges in that regard.
30. The first challenge was a deeply constrained fiscal
environment. In 2024, total debt service payments for
the countries eligible for support from the International
Development Association were expected to reach
around 10 per cent of their combined gross domestic
product. As a result, those countries were facing hard
choices of how to spend scarce resources.
31. The second challenge was the need for a more
sustainable model of development. Action must be taken
to mitigate and adapt to climate change. However, that
must be done in a way that was also consistent with the
goals of poverty reduction and inclusive growth, which
required taking seriously the concept of a “just
transition”. In pushing for the necessary technological
transformation, appropriate policies and financing must
be in place to support the transfer of that technology
across the developing world and vulnerable populations
through the transition.
32. The third challenge was the constraint that
inequality posed to prospects for inclusive growth and
poverty reduction. He was therefore pleased to
announce that, for the first time, the World Bank had
committed to reducing the number of countries with
high inequality. The institution had chosen to adopt that
measure as a central indicator of progress towards the
renewed mission of ending poverty on a liveable planet.
33. Getting back on track to achieve Goal 1 would thus
require bold policy action to be taken in a very difficult
global context. A fundamental change in policies and a
strong sense of collective leadership would be needed,
moving forward.
34. The President asked about the role that the United
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) could play in
accelerating the implementation of the Sustainable
Development Goals and ensuring that everyone could
fully exercise their rights and achieve their full
potential.
35. Ms. Keita (Deputy Executive Director of the
United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)), panellist,
said that 2024 was a year for action, acceleration,
innovation and inclusion. While progress had been made
towards the Sustainable Development Goals, the
coronavirus disease pandemic had interrupted three
decades of steady progress of poverty reduction and had
caused the largest rise in inequality in three decades.
36. A renewed commitment was needed to
multilateralism and international cooperation, as called
for in Our Common Agenda and as envisioned in the
Summit of the Future. Inequality ran counter to the
values and principles of the United Nations and the
International Conference on Population and
Development (ICPD). The integral linkages between
population and development had been emphasized by
ICPD, and the ICPD Programme of Action placed
people and their rights and choices at the centre of the
work of UNFPA.
37. UNFPA supported a human rights-based approach
to sustainable development and there were a number of
things that it could do to ensure that solutions were
equitable by design. The first was to ensure that
everyone was counted, everywhere, in a world of
8 billion people. That entailed strengthened support to
countries in order to enhance population data systems
which reached those furthest behind. Only by
disaggregating data fully could policymakers know
which groups in society were benefiting, or not, from
interventions. They could then better tailor interventions
and address the barriers that might prevent certain
groups from accessing services. The achievement of full
human potential and sustainable development would
only be possible once the conditions and opportunities
were created for all 8 billion of the world’s people to
live freely and fully, equal in dignity and rights, on a
healthy, safe and prosperous planet.
38. The Equity 2030 Alliance fostered cross-sector
partnerships for gender equity in science, technology,
and finance – helping unlock the potential of 4 billion
people and accelerate both economic and social
development. The members of the Alliance were
committed to equity by design, and were driving actions
to develop and deliver solutions for global good.
39. However, the reality was that changing the status
quo required investment. Only fractions of global
research and development on health funding went to
women-centric conditions and sexual and reproductive
health needs in developing countries, and even less to
the marginalized communities in those countries.
Women’s empowerment would not be possible without
addressing their health needs. The UNFPA Equalizer
Accelerator Fund was therefore dedicated to supporting
innovations by women, for women, alongside
contributing partners. UNFPA wished to unlock
pathways for women and girls to realize their ideas and
innovations because they knew best what worked for
them. UNFPA stood ready to support Member States on
the path to building a better tomorrow.
40. The President asked what insights could be
shared on the implementation of early warning systems
and how disaster risk reduction could be key in
advancing human development and climate goals to
achieve the vision of the 2030 Agenda.
E/2024/SR.5
24-017466/11
41. Ms. Albrito (Acting Special Representative of the
Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction),
panellist, said that while disaster risks had increased
unabated because of the climate crisis, investments in
risk reduction continued to lag. Among all risk reduction
and climate adaptation measures, early warning systems
represented one of the best investments for saving lives
and reducing economic losses.
42. The United Nations Office for Disaster Risk
Reduction (UNDRR) and the World Meteorological
Organization (WMO) were one year into the
implementation of the Early Warnings for All initiative,
with its ambitious goal of ensuring that every person in
the world was protected by early warning systems by the
end of 2027. She wished to share some highlights from
their first annual report on their progress to date, which
they had recently submitted to the Secretary-General.
43. First, UNDRR and WMO had started
implementation of the initiative in 30 targeted countries,
with 13 of them already holding multi-stakeholder
national consultations. Second, they had developed
tools, products and plans across the initiative’s four
pillars to scale up technical offers of support. Third,
major finance mechanisms, including multilateral
development banks, the Green Climate Fund, the
Climate Risk and Early Warning Systems initiative and
the Systematic Observations Financing Facility, had all
committed to enhancing coordination, alignment and
support. Fourth, regional-level coordination had been
enhanced, especially in the most vulnerable regions
such as Africa and the Pacific. Fifth, UNDRR and WMO
had established a robust monitoring and evaluation
framework to hold themselves accountable for progress.
The key to making progress and overcoming remaining
challenges would be strengthening partnerships, both
within and outside the United Nations system.
44. While early warning systems could help countries
to reduce losses, it was better if countries could avoid
them completely by preventing disasters in the first
place. It would be impossible for many developing
countries to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals
if they were constantly recovering from disasters.
45. Countries could prevent hazards from becoming
disasters if they factored climate and disaster risks into
every development and investment decision, so that the
resulting development was sustainable and resilient.
Such was the aim of disaster risk reduction and why the
implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster
Risk Reduction 2015–2030 was vital for achieving the
Goals.
46. The President invited the Council to engage in an
interactive discussion.
47. Mr. Anyaegbu (Nigeria) said that, in order for
African countries to achieve sustainable development,
greater international efforts were needed to prevent
capital flight and repatriate stolen assets. The President
of Nigeria had signed executive orders to prevent tax
evasion, for example, but more still needed to be done
at the international level, including in the form of a tax
convention, in support of such efforts.
48. Mr Liu Liqun (China) said that the international
community must unite its efforts to get back on track
with the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. Upholding
the commitments made at the Sustainable Development
Goals Summit should be taken as a starting point in that
regard. Global governance must also be improved to
create a favourable international environment for
developing countries, including building a more just
international economic order and more inclusive
globalization. At the same time, cooperation on science,
technology and innovation should be strengthened so
that developing countries could acquire new
technologies, in particular artificial technology. In
addition, it was necessary to increase resource inputs
and build a broader global partnership for development.
49. Developed countries should fulfil their obligations
with respect to official development assistance and
climate finance, and effectively deliver on their
commitments to developing countries in such areas as
technology transfer and capacity-building. For their
part, developing countries should strengthen
coordination among themselves, including through
South-South cooperation. China had undertaken a
number of effective initiatives in that regard.
50. He asked what more could be done to focus on
poverty and inequality reduction efforts. He also
wondered what could be done, in the current difficult
international context, to strengthen cooperation and
narrow differences in order to turn consensus into
action.
51. Mr. Rae (Canada) said that he agreed with the
representative of China on the need for urgent and
coordinated action. The main question was what
additional action was required by all relevant
institutions, including the United Nations. He also
wished to point out that transnational organized crime
was a significant cause of disruption and instability that
impacted global development efforts. More attention
should therefore be paid to that issue. Forcible
displacement was also causing significant disruption to
the poorest countries. Lastly, the barriers must be broken
down between discussing peace and security, on the one
hand, and development, on the other.
E/2024/SR.5
7/1124-01746
52. Ms. Mamesah (Observer for Indonesia), recalling
some of the key takeaways from the previous session of
the Council’s coordination segment, said that it was
important to refocus international efforts on
implementing the 2030 Agenda. To that end, the Council
had a crucial role to play in ensuring that its subsidiary
bodies and the United Nations development system
worked in synergy. The quadrennial comprehensive
policy review should also ensure that the system was
supported by sustainable, predictable and adequate
funding. Scaling up the means of implementation would
be crucial, including through inclusive partnerships to
mobilize public and private sector efforts. In that context,
the Council’s coordination segment should connect
meaningfully with the partnership forum. Voluntary
national reviews must also meaningfully connect
Member States with concrete support and partnerships.
53. Lastly, the Summit of the Future provided a golden
opportunity to ensure that the multilateral system was
more fit for purpose. There was a need for more
effective synergies and policy coordination between the
Council and the Bretton Woods institutions.
54. Mr. Vidal (Chile) said that while the eradication
of poverty must guide the Council’s actions, it should be
recalled that poverty and hunger were intrinsically
linked. Millions of people around the world died every
year because of poverty and malnutrition. Addressing
poverty was not only a moral imperative, but also a
strategic necessity for building sustainable and
equitable societies. It was therefore essential to mobilize
resources, implement inclusive policies and promote
international cooperation to create an enabling
environment for effective poverty eradication.
55. Public policies could play a crucial role in
reducing poverty. A recent survey in Chile had shown that
income poverty in the country had reached an all-time
low of 6.5 per cent, while multidimensional poverty had
fallen from 20.3 per cent to 16.9 per cent. That reduction
had been mainly because of public policies, especially
resource transfer policies, which had had an even greater
impact than that of economic growth.
56. While coordinated action at the national and
international levels was essential to reverse the current
trend and move towards poverty eradication, the
international community must focus on strategies that
not only addressed the immediate consequences of
poverty, but also its structural roots. That implied
policies that promoted equal opportunities, access to
education and health care and the creation of decent
employment. Overcoming poverty meant challenging
and transforming the systems and structures that
perpetuated inequality, and working together to build
more just and equitable societies. The political will and
the commitment of all actors would be essential to
implement sustainable and effective measures.
57. Mr. Hult (Observer for the Universal Esperanto
Association) said that multilingualism was a core value
of the United Nations, but it was rarely addressed in
relation to the targets and indicators of the Sustainable
Development Goals. Recent milestones had drawn
attention to the relevance of multilingualism to Goals 1
and 16, in particular.
58. As Indigenous Peoples and minorities suffered
disproportionately from poverty, language could not be
ignored as a factor in leaving no one behind. Equal
access to justice for all would remain elusive as long as
linguistic discrimination continued. Inclusive,
participative and representative decision-making would
also be impossible unless all voices could be heard. The
review of Goal 16 was an opportunity for a renewed
conversation about implementing language rights and
innovative multilingual solutions to poverty.
59. The President asked how Member States could
effectively prioritize the implementation of the 2030
Agenda in their national policies and plans to address
inequality and poverty amidst multiple crises. He also
asked how Member States could foster partnerships with
the private sector, civil society and other stakeholders to
leverage diverse resources and expertise in tackling
inequality and poverty.
60. Mr. Montalvo (Chair of the Permanent Forum on
Indigenous Issues) said that the matters under
discussion, such as climate change, hunger, organized
crime and displacement, were all intimately linked and
had an impact on Indigenous Peoples. The Council
could help in providing solutions, moving forward. To
that end, coordination must be enhanced among the
various bodies working on those separate issues, in
order to come up with a more comprehensive vision.
Moreover, it was important to ensure that the
international commitments undertaken by States to
address such challenges were upheld.
61. At the same time, it should be acknowledged that
there was often an incomplete understanding of local
realities. Indigenous Peoples, for example, had a great
deal of ancestral knowledge and an intimate
understanding of the natural resources and biodiversity
on their lands, which could be useful to all of humanity.
The economic vision adopted must therefore encompass
more than just market forces. The participation of
Indigenous Peoples, women and children in related
discussions should also be increased. The human
capacity for collective cooperation must not be
overlooked.
E/2024/SR.5
24-017468/11
62. Mr. Lopez-Calva (Global Director for Poverty
and Equity, World Bank Group) said that the World
Bank had adopted a new corporate scorecard, which
focused on ending poverty on a liveable planet. That
broad concept included issues related to fragility and
conflict, pandemics and climate. The indicators in the
corporate scorecard reflected a broader vision, for
example, by providing a multidimensional perspective
that included specific commitments related to food
security and access to energy and water. The World
Bank also considered it important to acknowledge
inequality as a constraint on development and to take
into account the recent liquidity constraints faced by
developing countries. Lastly, the World Bank was
working to become more effective in helping countries
to face multiple challenges and, to that end, was
committed to simplifying its processes.
63. Ms. Keita (Deputy Executive Director of the
United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)) said that
data were essential to find those left the furthest behind.
In that regard, she wished to stress the important link
between socioeconomic development and governance
accountability. International partnerships and South-
South cooperation were also vital for development.
Lastly, the youth, peace and security agenda was central
to development efforts aimed at building resilience.
64. Ms. Albrito (Acting Special Representative of the
Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction) said that
there was a clear understanding of the current state of
affairs and a collective wish to move forward in a
sustainable manner. A number of systemic challenges
and risks were being faced, but what still remained to be
done was to connect them meaningfully in order to
address them effectively. From the disaster risk
reduction perspective, the first important action was to
break down silos and comprehensively assess what was
happening at the national and local levels. The second
relevant point was stakeholder engagement, which was
necessary in order to scale up actions. Increased funding
in prevention and resilience was also needed for more
effective and lasting disaster risk reduction. Lastly, it
would not be possible to move forward with disaster risk
reduction without expanding private sector partnerships.
Panel discussion: “Resilient and sustainable food
systems: the path to advance Sustainable
Development Goal 2 and beyond”
65. The President asked how current population
trends were linked to food systems that were becoming
increasingly vulnerable, owing to the impacts of climate
change. He wondered what needed to be done at the
policy level to mitigate associated risks, ensure safe
access to food and promote sustainable production and
consumption. He also requested a short preview of the
status of implementation of the ICPD Programme of
Action and its contribution to the 2030 Agenda.
66. Ms. Espinoza Madrid (Chair of the Commission
on Population and Development), panellist, said that
demographic trends were intimately linked to food
systems. In 2021, the Commission on Population and
Development had focused on food security, nutrition
and sustainable development to identify measures based
on a human rights approach to food. Given that most
countries were experiencing a demographic transition
towards an ageing society, measures must be taken to
take the most vulnerable into account. While enough
food was produced globally to feed the entire world, the
problem of waste persisted and food systems themselves
were part of the inequality challenges faced. Many
people did not have access to decent nutrition options.
The paradox was that the most vulnerable people were
those living in countries which produced more food than
the world needed, but those who were vulnerable had
difficulty accessing sufficient and adequate food and
they also worked in exploitative conditions. Continued
population growth would substantially increase the
demand for food, which would in turn be impacted by
changes in consumption patterns.
67. Multilateralism was the only option when
addressing such challenges, particularly among regional
integration systems. One example was the plan of the
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States,
whose objective was to strengthen solidarity among
countries in order to eliminate hunger and reduce
malnutrition by 2030.
68. There was also a need to implement policies that
allowed the transition to more responsible consumption
patterns and decent production systems, which
contributed to alleviating the pressure on ecosystems
and reducing greenhouse gas emissions to mitigate
climate change.
69. In addition, it was important to uphold human
rights, in particular gender equality and especially in
rural contexts, in order to close gaps in access to
inheritance, property rights, land and natural resources.
In short, food security for all was the basis for the
sustainability of humanity.
70. Thirty years after the adoption of the ICPD
Programme of Action, the world was at a turning point
because the ambition was nothing less than to leave no
one behind. The Programme of Action was the heart of
the 2030 Agenda as it provided clear, comprehensive
and holistic solutions to achieve the Sustainable
Development Goals and to ensure a future where human
rights were guaranteed, gender equality and women’s
E/2024/SR.5
9/1124-01746
empowerment were a reality and food was not a
privilege.
71. The President asked what insights and strategies
needed to be adopted to build resilient, sustainable food
systems and how those were advanced by the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nation (FAO).
72. Mr. Torero (Chief Economist, Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)),
panellist, said that there had been a lively discussion on
Sustainable Development Goal 2 at the Council’s
partnership forum, with representatives of youth,
academia, civil society and family farmers showcasing
how partnerships could advance the goals of ending
hunger and malnutrition. The three key takeaways were:
(a) the urgent need for synergistic multi-stakeholder
collaboration to achieve Goal 2; (b) the importance of a
global consensus to move towards more sustainable,
equitable and resilient agrifood systems, of which
inclusive engagement was an important part; and (c) the
need for transformational partnerships that evolved and
were flexible enough to meet complex challenges in
changing circumstances. FAO was committed to
continue to support those efforts.
73. The solution for building resilient and sustainable
food systems lay in transforming agrifood systems to
make them more inclusive, sustainable and resilient
while ensuring affordable and healthy diets. Conflicts,
climate extremes and economic swings were a reality
that would not disappear but would increasingly
continue to occur. The critical question was therefore
what needed to be done to increase resilience. Climate
was the major source of shock that would not disappear,
but future damage could be mitigated by lowering
emissions, adapting to ongoing changes and
implementing climate risk monitoring and early warning
systems. It would also be important, inter alia: to
address the challenges of water scarcity and water
governance; to integrate humanitarian, development and
peacebuilding policies in conflict areas; to strengthen
the resilience of those most vulnerable to economic
adversity; to intervene along supply chains to lower the
cost of nutritious foods; and to realign policies and
public spendings. All those measures also needed to be
gender sensitive.
74. FAO had developed a road map for achieving Goal
2 without exceeding 1.5 degrees Celsius. The road map
involved an extensive process that had spanned three
years and it provided a global vision to address the
current challenges in agrifood systems. It had 10
domains, 120 actions and 20 milestones.
75. The President said that, in 2022, 148 million
children had stunted growth and 45 million children
under the age of 5 had been affected by wasting. He
wondered how those immense challenges could be
addressed and food insecurity tackled in order to end all
forms of malnutrition, given the rising number of people
and children suffering from hunger.
76. Mr. Abdi (Deputy Executive Director, United
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)), panellist, said that
the burden of childhood malnutrition was one of the
main challenges that the global community continued to
face and must address. Child malnutrition could and
must be prevented.
77. Experience showed that investments in child
nutrition, including efforts to build resilient and
sustainable food systems, could protect and sustain
many important gains. In the past two decades, the
global prevalence of child stunting had declined by one
third and the number of stunted children by 55 million.
Those great achievement showed that positive changes
in nutrition were possible and were happening at scale
across countries and regions.
78. Despite the important global decline in child
stunting, almost 150 million children under 5 had
stunted growth and development because of
undernutrition. At the same time, the epidemic of
overweight and obese children continued to explode,
affecting an estimated 135 million schoolchildren aged
6 to 10 years old, most of whom lived in low and middle-
income countries or belonged to poorer households in
high-income countries.
79. The burden of malnutrition was largely driven by
a double failure of food systems. On one hand, food
systems were failing to provide children with sufficient,
affordable and nutritious food, contributing to high
levels of undernutrition. On the other hand, children
were increasingly exposed to aggressive marketing of
unhealthy foods and beverages that were very high in
sugar, salt, fats and other harmful ingredients, which
contributed to high levels of overweight and obese
children.
80. Global food systems were focused on increasing
the agricultural production of a few crops. They
consistently failed to consider the unique nutritio nal
needs of children for a nutritious, diverse and safe diet.
Similarly, the global and national food insecurity
discourse was most often centred on filling the energy
gap of populations, including through food aid, and
failed to pay attention to the nutrition security of
children.
81. It was important to address the double failure of
food systems with a two-pronged approach aimed at
preventing all forms of child malnutrition. For UNICEF,
E/2024/SR.5
24-0174610/11
the food systems transformation agenda called for by the
Secretary-General was a child rights agenda in which it
was necessary to simultaneously improve access to
nutritious, safe, affordable and sustainable food while
halting the aggressive marketing of nutrient-poor,
unhealthy and ultra-processed foods.
82. In its strategy to transform food systems for
children, UNICEF had identified three key action areas,
with a high potential for impact. The first was improving
children’s food through actions in public policy,
guidelines and standards, and food supply chains,
including fortified foods, food supplements and
therapeutic foods for children. Second was improving
children’s food environments, including the places
where children lived, learned, ate and met, through
actions in public sector policies and programmes and in
private sector practices and products. Third was
improving children’s food practices through policies,
strategies and programmes that promoted positive
individual behaviour, caregiver practices and social
norms.
83. UNICEF urged Governments and private sector
food producers and suppliers to place children at the
centre of plans to transform global and local food
systems. Governments had the primary responsibility
for upholding the right to food and nutrition for children,
and they must establish public policies that were aligned
with children’s best interests. Key public policies with
proven effectiveness to transform food environments
positively included: (a) implementing fiscal policies
that provided increased incentives for the production of
healthy foods and taxed unhealthy foods and beverages;
(b) placing nutrition warning labels on packaged foods
that were understandable to children and caregivers and
clearly indicated the presence of harmful ingredients;
(c) regulating the marketing of unhealthy foods and
beverages directed at children; and (d) improving school
environments to ensure that healthy foods and meals
were promoted and unhealthy foods were banned inside
and outside of schools.
84. Producers and suppliers needed to ensure that food
systems delivered nutritious, safe, affordable and
sustainable food options for children, and that their
actions – including food production, transformation,
distribution, labelling, marketing and retailing – were
aligned with national policies and in the best interests of
children’s right to nutrition and a sustainable planet.
85. The aforementioned actions, if implemented
systematically by Governments and private sector
actors, had a strong potential to transform food systems
and contribute to the achievement of the nutrition targets
for children and societies under Sustainable
Development Goal 2.
86. The President invited the Council to engage in an
interactive discussion.
87. Mr. Vidal (Chile) said that, over the past few
years, the coordination segment had become an
important forum for exchanging experiences and best
practices and discussing lessons learned and common
challenges, with a view to achieving the 2030 Agenda.
In that context, multilateralism was the best way to
make progress in addressing global challenges to leave
no one behind. The multiple contemporary crises
required urgent action and improving food systems was
an ethical and practical priority that could not be
postponed. While poor nutrition could increase the
likelihood of developing diseases, good nutrition
translated into a better quality of life. Healthy children
learned better, healthy families could spend more time
together and healthy seniors could enjoy a more active
and self-reliant old age.
88. Chile was committed to overcoming poverty and
inequality and ensuring gender equality, decent work,
the sustainability of life and democratic coexistence,
which were all elements of the Sustainable
Development Goals and related in some way to food
systems. Chile was also committed to modifying food
systems through a decentralized approach, where the
priority was to generate guarantees for the development
of individuals, families and communities, and thus guide
production to enhance human well-being.
89. The main challenge was to promote structural
measures that created healthy food environments,
addressed the social determinants of health and
strengthened intersectoral alliances, encouraging citizen
participation in decision-making. The international
support ecosystem could support Governments by
facilitating regional coordination dialogues that
provided guidance on how to make evidence-based
policy decisions and by mobilizing resources to make
such initiatives possible.
90. Ms. Espinoza Madrid (Chair of Commission on
Population and Development) said that holistic and
integrated approaches were needed to meet current
challenges and build the potential to address food
security in the coming years. She called on Member
States to reaffirm their commitment to sustainable
development. The time had come for action.
91. Mr. Torero (Chief Economist, Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO))
said that while reducing poverty was a complex process,
the Sustainable Development Goals could not be
E/2024/SR.5
11/1124-01746
achieved without reducing inequality and ensuring food
security. Lastly, in the context of reducing greenhouse
gas emissions to mitigate the impact of climate change,
fundamental transformations would be needed not only
in foods systems but also in energy systems.
The meeting rose at noon.